"There are things in the process view of others that you cannot see in your
process view - things you cannot imagine." - A.E. Sukinami



*** The Booger Argument ***



It was one of those magical evenings at Sukinami burger, sitting outside.  It
was the time of year when the days were so long they blended in with the night
seamlessly, without anyone noticing.  The evening light made everything soft
and clear and relaxed the eyes.  It was the kind of light that made you feel
like you had walked into a land where you never had to squint to see the
perfect version of things.  You couldn't guess the temperature, other than
"perfect".  



Carin and Maggie had finished their burgers and were silent for a while,
letting the food coma settle in.  That never stopped Carin for long, though.



"O.k. Maggie, I found something cool today.", Carin said.



"Do tell."



"It's called the Simulation Argument."



"Um...what definition of cool are we working with?"



"Shut up.  I'll read it to you.  It's short.", Carin said as she pulled out
her phone.



"Aaaa! So bored!"



"I haven't even started.  Check this out, though:"



Carin read dramatically from her phone, "A technologically mature 'posthuman'
civilization would have enormous computing power. Based on this empirical
fact, the simulation argument shows that at least one of the following
propositions is true:



1) The fraction of human-level civilizations that reach a posthuman stage is
very close to zero;

2) The fraction of posthuman civilizations that are interested in running
ancestor-simulations is very close to zero;

3) The fraction of all people with our kind of experiences that are living in
a simulation is very close to one.



If (1) is true, then we will almost certainly go extinct before reaching
posthumanity. If (2) is true, then there must be a strong convergence among
the courses of advanced civilizations so that virtually none contains any
relatively wealthy individuals who desire to run ancestor-simulations and are
free to do so. If (3) is true, then we almost certainly live in a simulation.
In the dark forest of our current ignorance, it seems sensible to apportion
one’s credence roughly evenly between (1), (2), and (3).



Unless we are now living in a simulation, our descendants will almost
certainly never run an ancestor-simulation."



Maggie had been digging into her fries and people watching while Carin
rambled, but she had background-processed Carins monologue.



"Physics is amenable to change at the whim of the author of the simulation,
then.", Maggie said.



"Yeah, I suppose."



"Yeeeeah.  Not willing to talk through your God theories today.", Maggie said.



Carin casually threw a hand in the air in exasperation.  "Pfft. Pussy."



"I'll talk about that cute guy you won't ask out.", Maggie smiled a
mischevious smile.



"Which one?", Carin asked.



"The dan-smith-looking one in sales?!?"



Carin just shrugged and raised her palms in confusion.



"The one down the hall from you that you f-ing mention every day??!?", Maggie
said.



"Oh, that one.  Nope.  You'll talk about this 'simulation' thing with me.",
Carin said, making finger quotes.



"Pfft."



"Don't pfft me.  You bet me you wouldn't swear the entire week..."



"Ugh.", Maggie just gazed further into her fries, poking about and pretending
they were her only company.



"I believe *I* have the con...and the topic for today iiiis...The Simulation
Hypothesis!"



Maggie kept poking about, picking choice fries to eat.



"So?!?", Carin said.



"So what?", Maggie said, pausing with several fries sticking halfway out her
mouth.



"So tell me what you think about that argument...er...hypothesis!"



Maggie shook her head side to side slowly, chewed her fries, and swallowed
them down with a swig of lemonade, which she drank through a straw.  She
cleared her throat, and fixed Carin with the somewhat condescending look that
Carin had nicknamed "Nutty Jedi" long ago, because it always preceded some
sort of mind trick that was difficult to retort.



"Are you familiar with the HitchHikers Guide to the Galaxy?"



"Of course.  Read it a dozen times, along with the rest of the books in the
series.", Carin said.



"Then you will be familiar with the concept that the universe was sneezed into
existence by a gigantic super-being?"



"Hmmm...I recall that theory being proffered in the guide, although I don't
remember which book in the trilogy mentioned it."



Maggie fixed Carin with a serious stare.  "I propose, then, that one of the
following *must* be true:



1) The fraction of human-level civilizations that reach a posthuman stage is
very close to zero;

2) The fraction of posthuman civilizations that are compelled to sneeze out
new universes is very close to zero;

or

3) The fraction of all people with our kind of experiences that are living in
a booger universe is very close to one.



If (1) is true, then we will almost certainly go extinct before reaching
posthumanity."



Carin raised a finger to object, but it was waved down energetically by one of
Maggies hands.  



Maggie continued, "If (2) is true, then there must be a strong convergence
among the courses of advanced civilizations so that virtually none contains
any relatively wealthy individuals who desire to blow universe-snot and are
free to do so. If (3) is true, then we almost certainly live in a nasty,
*nasty* booger.



Therefore, in the dark forest of our current ignorance, it seems sensible to
apportion one’s credence roughly evenly between (1), (2), and (3).



Unless we are now living in a booger, our descendants will almost certainly
never blow universe-boogers.  In fact, there is about a 33% chance that you,
and everything you hold dear, is in a booger."



Carin gave Maggie a slow clap.  "Whoopie.", She said, "You can replace 'run an
ancestor simulation' with any equivalent, even 'blow a universe out your
nose.'  But...that only makes sense if you are basically using computing power
to make the booger...er...universe...um...so you're just making the same
argument - except that it's weaker for the obvious reason that little
universes cannot be detected within *my* boogers."



"No, my argument is equally cogent.  *You* are saying that because you are
human, not post-human.  You can no more imagine post-human tech than ants can
imagine computing.  If we're living in a simulation, then the physics of the
universe outside this simulation are potentially *completely* different - and
I mean *everything* can be different.  And knowing nothing about the universe
from which ours sprung, the desires of it's occupants - our creators - can be
*completely* different - almost anything is equally likely for statement 2,
that middle part - boogers universes, ancestor simulations - we have no
information.  We can easily just be part of a booger.", Maggie said.



Carin leaned back, picking up her lemonade.  "You're saying that...", she
said, flourishing her lemonade, "we have no evidence that makes it more likely
that we are living in a simulation than a booger..." She took a long victory
sip.



Maggie rolled her eyes.  "Ugh. O.k., Maggie.  I'm saying the simulation
argument is not evidence of anything.  It *should* be generalized.  But...the
booger argument is probably weaker in some way than the ancestor idea...can we
talk about guys now?"



Carin waggled a finger back and forth in front of her.  "Oh, no.  You asked
for this.  You want to replace ancestor simulation with something better.",
she said, "Now, if you *were* a post-human, and had somehow maintained some
evolutionary memory and human-like behaviors, what would *you* do with
infinite computing power?"



Maggie appraised Carin seriously, then took the bait with a smile.



"I would make a dream, not a simulation...I would make...", Maggie looked up
to the sky, pushed her palms up, and yawned.  When her arms came back down,
she was smiling more genuinely at Carin, "...art.", she said.



Carin nodded in agreement.  "And why?"



"Oh, I supose to appease the big snuffleupagus post-human that sneezed us out,
or...to make him happy."  



Carin continued for her.  "Because in our little post-human minds, the best we
could imagine is that our universe is a work of art - that we can be that
little molecule of paint that part that makes Mona-Lisas smile impenetrable,
if we work together, maybe."



"Maybe we can make God so happy that he lifts our little minds into the next
painting."



"But that next life is as impenetrable as the mind of a post-human is to us.
In the dark forest of our ignorance..."



"Basically everything is bullshit."



They clinked lemonades and shared a laugh.



"So does that conclude our God-talk for the day?", Maggie asked.



"Almost.", Carin responded, deep in thought.



"So what if we aren't in a simulation?", Carin said, finally.



"Then there is only the dark forest - all our theories are equal."



"What if god is trying to figure something out, and the reason *you* can't
figure it out is because you are supposed to be struggling with the same
thing.  You are one of a trillion people that just might, maybe, evolve into a
solution he's looking for.  *The* solution he's looking for."



"Pfft.  Brain in a vat."



"Stall all you want.  There are a lot of possibilities out there.  We are
little interacting equations - little automata.  Maybe one of us will become
the complex answer he's looking for, without even knowing it."



"Pfft.  Depressing."



"You're still stalling.  It's a higher purpose.  A god that wants us to
succeed in something.  Inverse correllation with depression, there.  I can
look that up for you."



"I suppose...but doesn't it bother you?"



"In what way?"



"You realize that your philosophy has now just evolved into the *primary* plot
vehicle of the Hitchikers Guide to the Galaxy...that we are part of a computer
designed to resolve the meaning of life?"



Carin laughed mid-drink, then she snorted her lemonade, then Maggie laughed
and then they were a mess of lemonade and napkins and laughter and french
fries that took a while to clean up.



When Carin had calmed down, and got her breathing under control, she said,
"Oh, shit.  The hitchhikers guide is the *word*.  That makes so much sense.
What *else* would two nerds come up with."



"I'm going to forgive that last swear on the grounds that this is the most fun
I have ever had talking about god.", Maggie said, "H2G2 almost *is* the word.
There is something it doesn't get, though..."



"What's that.", Carin said.



"I think it's...the pervasiveness of a god...that we *are* him...the universe
*is* him.  That kind of thing..."



"No...I mean...I think...that's allowed by the simulation argument.  It's just
not allowed by the booger argument.  We can be a process running inside His
head.  The simulation argument works so well as a God argument because it puts
everything into the same substrate...probably why Bostrom chose 'ancestor
simulation' - intelligence-based constructs are fun."



"Intelligence as the medium of the universe?  I suppose.  A booger could still
be utterly profound to it's creator, and affect Him...but you're right, it's
easier to feel like I'm *part* of God when I look at it that way.  Simulation
as art/computer lends itself to explaining a whole lot - evil, miracles, you
name it.", Maggie said.



"Douglas Adams was so close, too.  Maybe he never finished that series.  Maybe
if he lived a little longer.", Carin said.



"Then...in the H2G2 world...I guess that makes us the girl in Chelsea who
figures it all out right before a hyperspace bypass takes out earth?"



THE END





